[SOUND] Hello,
first I want to make a brief
introduction to the field
of computer vision.
What is computer vision?
To answer this question, we need to
understand first what human vision is.
There is a saying, to see is to
know what is where by looking.
The goal of computer vision is to
solve the same problem on a computer.
Thus, computer vision is regarded as
a part of artificial intelligence.
In computer vision we have our
own version of Turing test.
To pass it, the computer vision system
should answer any question regarding
an image,
which can be answered by a human.
What are the main
questions about an image?
The first question comes from
the informal definition of vision.
This, what and where?
What objects are seen in the image and
where are there are located?
This is called object detection.
Some objects are more important for
us than other.
Because we're humans, the most important
object for us are other humans and
their faces.
Thus, it is understandable why face
detection and person detection
are one of the most rigorously
researched topics in computer vision.
And still they are not solved completely,
with new algorithms appearing every week.
In this particular image we can see
other important objects like text, or
less important, buildings and flags.
After objects are detected,
we move on to know their properties.
Is it the picture of a city,
or it is something else?
What color is the sky,
how strong is the wind?
What can we say about this person?
Currently these problems are usually
solved by image classification.
Possible answers are enumerated and
an algorithm predict the correct answer.
For example, we can divide all images into
images of cities and all the rest, and
then it classify as city or not city.
To identify the particular object and
person, we usually store the images and
compare the current image with the stored,
which is called image retrieval.
We can also obtain metric
information from images,
like distances between
selected points in scene.
We can also estimate
the shape of the object,
position of camera relative to the object,
distance from the camera to the object.
Currently available algorithm of metric
vision allows automated creation of fully
textured 3D models from set of
photographs downloaded automatically from
the Internet.
The quality of these models are not of
production quality yet, and you can't
directly put them into computer game,
but we will get there soon, I believe.
In our human brains we combine our
observations with prior knowledge
regarding the volt.
It is estimated that a quarter of
human brain is devoted to the vision.
A lot of computer vision
algorithm have derived ideas
from our knowledge of human vision system.
Probably the most influential work
computer vision is the model of human
vision system,
which was proposed by David Marr in 70s.
It consists of three steps.
First, low-level image features,
like directed edge segments,
are extracted from image to
form so-called primal sketch.
From this primal sketch a two 2.5D sketch
is obtained using binocular stereo.
Finally, high-level techniques
using prior knowledge
is used to get 3D model representation
of objects in the scene.
This seminal work has received so much
appraised that the most prestigious award
in computer vision is named
after the Marr, the Marr Prize.
This is awarded each couple
of years during ICCV,
International Conference
on Computer Vision.
The progress in computer vision
is entangled with progress
in machine learning.
As an example,
I want to mention the seminal work,
the Viola-Jones face detector,
which was proposed in 2001.
It was the first detector which can
elaborately detect human faces in real
time on a personal computer.
This was a demonstration of power of
machine learning and data collection.
Until recently, if you saw a face
detector in a consumer product,
it was definitely a Viola-Jones
detector or one of its derivatives.
Neural networks has a long
history in computer vision.
But since 2012,
when AlexNet was introduced,
we are witnessing a record improvement
of computer vision algorithms.
Deep learning has been successfully
applied to most of the computer
vision problems.
In this course we will focus on deep
learning methods in computer vision.
But we will also introduce a lot of
general computer vision concepts,
explain both basic and
seminal non-deep learning methods,
talk about contemporary data sets.
All to give you perspective and
understanding of key ideas, problems,
and achievements of computer vision.
[SOUND]